we felt, at least I felt, that the public was not
turned off on veterinary medicine, but they
wasn't turned off. Yeah, just didn't. You know,
they kind of accepted, you know, I got a vet down the
street to treat my dog, but I doubt if we really, I
don't think that we were appreciated in the
proportions of what veterinarians sacrificed
and getting the kind of education that they were
beginning to get at that time. It was an expensive,
long-term thing, highly scientific type thing. I
appreciated that because I made a point to
understand how these graduates are, what they're
going through. So I really don't think the public,
per se, really put the veterinarian up on a high
plane. What we were struggling to do, excuse me, I
think I might have thought in my heart that our
image was 100% about love veterinarians, but I
don't think they did, and I still don't think they
did, and I don't think they do. But I think they have
a great deal of respect, and I think enough to where
the veterinary profession will survive on their
reputation, because I think they've become
better accepted. You have to look at veterinary
medicine as one of those things that when you spend
money with somebody, That's not the most pleasant
thing. So I guess everybody, every type of
practitioner, dentist, everybody else has got
that little barrier there. But I think through
some of the things that have been done, and
hopefully I have a part of it, did improve the image
and did make the veterinary more. to make people
more aware of what they could do and the fact that
they have as good an education as you can get. It's
much harder to be a veterinarian in this position
sometimes as far as getting into a school. I think
people appreciate that. Do you think there was a
tendency in post-World War II Texas, et cetera, to
associate a veterinarian with rural farm
pastimes? Absolutely. The veterinarian that
came out of Texas A&M in 1950 and went to Houston, I
can assure you he had a big selling job to do to make a
living in that town, which must have been half the
size it is today. But I mean, it was a very risky
situation for a man to go to Houston in 1950 instead
of practice, hoping they'd have enough pet owners
that would appreciate the fact that their pets
needed care. You know, the money in things began to
pick up, too. People had more spendable income
after that time. But to get back to your story, I
think it was the image of veterinarian was the old
general practitioner that pulled calves and...
And we don't need him anymore. Right, yeah, I mean,
I think it was that way. For a while, I could see
where that could have developed. And I guarantee
you, the first one I ever saw, I'll never forget
him. My daddy used him to throw in some hogs. You
know, he was one of those guys who worked 18 hours a
day, several days a week, and he had a pretty darn
cool facility operation. Most of them operated
out of the pickup or out of an old hole in the wall.
And posted all the animals down at the jump yard.
Posted all the animals down at the... But anyway,
yeah. Well, in that same token, could you comment
broadly on the... I'd say the income, et cetera, of
veterinarians, and also what the new competition
of more and more vets in business was doing to
income levels, et cetera, prices, competition
within the profession, this kind of thing. I'm not
sure, again, what I'm asking, except that how well
are vets doing after World War II? And how are they
doing now? And what's been the big problem
economically for them? I really think the
veterinarian always made more money than, let's
say, the graduate we went into, let's say,
teaching or something like that. Okay, that's a
good index. In other words, they're probably
doing better than the teacher or the county agent,
say. Yeah, the county agent. They're working
hard. I would say they were doing, I hate to use
percentage figures, I would say they were doing
20-30% better than what you could earn on a salary.
So they're getting a professional income. Right.
And of course they had some overhead and some risk.
And one of the good things that happened The
veterinarians, through their investing in the
real estate, also reap a side benefit. One in
Houston soon found that the location of clinics in
certain places is a good investment. In other
words, they can make it go, they can hold on to it and
make a living or maybe hire somebody to run it. But
more importantly, it might be worth more in
development as development. or in a good place
where it would be brought out for a shopping
center. That wasn't necessarily nearly as true,
of course, and probably not at all true in the rural
communities. But some of them did accumulate some
pretty fine buildings and some pretty good
equipment and some good locations. And some of
them, you know, accumulated some land with them in
the case of the rural practitioners and kind of
mid-city type people. Yeah, I would say the
veterinarian always did better, and there was
always a little bit of professional jealousy, I
think, between the professional agriculturist
and the professional veterinarian. Oh, and that
could have been part of it. I think it might have
been. But I would say the veterinarian was always,
you know, he worked hard, had a good location, good
attitude, good management, good support from his
family and his staff, you know, he always did okay.
But they're hard workers. They open that door
every morning at 6.30 and they close it every night
at 6.30 or 5.30 or whatever. So you have to know that
they're working probably 20, 30 percent harder
and a lot harder and more hours, 20, 30 percent more
hours. But they had their own business and they had
incentives there being in their business. Okay,
now in the 60s or in the boom period, when you start
producing 100 new vets a year, what's happening to
the income levels? I think the income level came
right on. It'll hold because of growth in society,
affluent. You know, on the dollars that we had in
the late 60s and early 70s, let's use a comparison
and don't hold me to it as an actual, but let's say a
person in the late 60s and early 70s was grossing,
let's say, $20,000. I mean netting $20,000 out of a
hospital. Maybe he grossed $100,000, $75,000,
whatever it takes. But he was netting a bit. I think
by the middle 70s and the early 80s that you were
talking about $35,000, $70,000 and on up. But the
dollars changed. Yeah, sure. I would say... I
would say that there were not very many
veterinarians that were not netting $35,000,
$40,000 in the years that, in the latter years, I
was there, in the late 70s, early 80s. I would say
that there were plenty of them netting a whole lot
more than that. Yeah, well, that's a good index. A
hundred grand, and there were a lot of large animal
practitioners that worked hard, that had people
working for them. Of course, you had a lot of the
multiple practices started coming in. You're
talking about the expansion? Yeah. Other
students? Well, that also was reflected in the
multiple practice situation. You had a guy that
was one veterinarian at one location. Suddenly
there was two veterinarians. Suddenly there was
three veterinarians. Doing different things,
servicing different groups. Or sometimes the
veterinarians were going and putting in a
satellite clinic. And it's the best thing that
happened in Houston. It happened in a lot of larger
towns. And then there was another concept that
came along that helped. And that is the concept of
the emergency clinics. After hours clinic. A lot
of those people were absorbed into that time and
still are many. A city like San Antonio, Houston
might have a half a dozen emergency clinics for
people after hours to go to. And so those people
were absorbed in that county. It was a new concept
in veterinary service in the, started about, I
guess, early mid-70s. You never, ever saw a
veterinary emergency clinic. No, I never even
heard of it. But lately I've been watching and I see
them. Yeah. Yeah. And it's a good concept. It's a
good service. And it's another way to absorb some
practitioners. Now, when a young vet comes out of
A&M, has there been any change in how they go into
business? Say, in the early 60s when you started
out, were most of these people just hanging out at
their shingle? Or were they associating
themselves with someone already in practice? And
did that change over time? I think you saw a lot of
shoestring operations where people just... they
opened up with a mental amount of capital and kind
of holding a wall type of concept. But I think you
saw that change between, let's say, 65 and
certainly by 1980, that the veterinarians, young
veterinarians, were willing to take more risk. In
other words, they went and they borrowed big money
from big financial... Set up, okay. And set up, a
lot of times, almost immediately went into their
own freestanding buildings. Of course, Houston,
the largest city, You couldn't do that near
Muscovy, but you could always get in the shopping
center or a strip center or something like that.
And some of them went into these kind of things. But
you didn't see, oh, you saw a few that went to the
cities in those 50s and 60s time, and some of them
before my time, but I can see what they did after I
came. Put in their own freestanding buildings,
very small buildings, looking for location more
than anything. And then they added to them. They
added associates, and they added partners. You
find people that started a partnership that broke
away from each other. This one went to this part of
town. This one went to large animal only. This one
went to small animal only. These kind of
partnerships you saw. And then all it did was just
multiply itself because there again you get
another clinic, another practitioner serving
another clientele. And he adds people,
veterinarians to his business. It's a little
smaller. A good example of that is Tremere's.
Tremere's practice. He used to be associated in
general practice when they went in in the 50s. You
know, everybody was a general practitioner.
Sure, yeah, did everything. If you didn't go to
Houston or Dallas, you were a general
practitioner. See, and I had a talk at that
luncheon, at that academy luncheon, with a guy in
Dallas, I believe. I should have brought my list
with me, but he's a heart specialist, I believe.
And he has four or five specialists with him, and
that's all they do. They service, apparently, the
other clinics. Well, that was another concept
that came along after the middle 70s was the
specialty surgery kind of thing, specialty
dermatology clinics, and these kind of things.
And they'd get referrals, like you say. Take the
average practitioner that just didn't have the
equipment nor perhaps the expertise to do back
surgery on a dog. Well, Herman Dietrich comes to my
mind. He went into specialty surgery. Very
brilliant person. And I You know, he kind of had his
own little ego, but he could do anything with
surgical procedures. Very respected. In fact, he
burned out just being a dog and cat doctor. That was
below his intelligence, and I don't mean that
complimentary. Yeah, I understand. So he and then
we had other people went into dermatology and
heart work, and I'm sure there's some I'm missing
out on that we also found. The general
practitioner began to become a specialist too. We
had people who still do. They make circuits. They
go on berries in Wise County, another one in Parker
County, another one in Wichita County. Their home
base might be in San Antonio. Let me ask you a couple
of other general questions about the development
of the, you might say, the vet economy. One is, did
you see, or had it already occurred, a balance, a
change in the balance, let's say, between large
animal and small animal practice or income into
the profession between 65 and 83? Was it marked?
Oh, very definitely. I think you just have to say
that, and the way you prove that up is that, you
know, when you look at the graduates, where do they
go? Okay, I'll get those statistics. That's a good
thing to pursue. I've had a practitioner tell me,
and he built a special place that people come and
intern with him in his general practice in South
Texas. And he built a dormitory type thing at his
clinic where people come and stay at his expense of
housing them. And the intern, he tells me that some
years he doesn't get a call. People are going into
it. other types of practice, and there's nothing
wrong with those kind of practices. Small animal,
they want to go to the city, they want to go to the
country, they want to go to specialty practices,
they want to go to teaching, research, and that
sort of thing. So I think you've seen, I bet if you
put a reading on it, you probably can tell by
looking at association records, I wouldn't be
surprised if it was certainly at least
two-thirds, one-third. I think it's two-thirds
small animal and one-third other. Okay. And a
pretty good index of that is simply where they're
domiciled. In other words, those people in the
city are going to be small animals, basically.
That's right. You'll see some GPs there. Sure.
Horse people. Yeah. And you'll see it'll be mostly
small animals because the population pretty well
dictates what professions go where. Yeah.
There's more venison here than there are in
Austin, if you might look at the numbers. But,
yeah. It is, and it is a considerable problem. I
think there's still an adequate number of general
practitioners, you know. The rancher may not
think that, but, you know, a general
practitioner's got to get over here, too. Yeah,
sure. And he works hard. He's got to do it over
hours. So, you know, you like to have one on every
elbow when you want it. Yeah, right. That cost,
too. Now, in that same general line, in the
changing complexion of the profession, let's
say, women are coming in when you start out. How has
this affected or impacted on the income levels and
profiles? The reason I ask is I've heard some
grousing. Well, you know, I've been away from it
for about five, six years now. I don't know if it's
like it was then, but let me tell you what I sensed at
the time, and I think it's probably a true thing,
that even though you've got 50% of the graduates
that are women, you know, you don't necessarily
have that reflected in practice. No, it's not.
That's right. Most of them are not what you call
the... owner-manager type situation. They work
for somebody else, they have husbands, and they
have secondary income for the family. And also,
that also reflected in the participation in the
professional association. I could sense that we
were not getting the women into the association
numbers that we were getting the men in. One reason
was that they were not the part and that they worked
for other people. They were not on the salaries
that made the income maybe that some of their peers
did. And I sensed that. And I think if you look at the
membership and the attrition that they've had
with the graduates in the last 10 years, you'd see
that. I haven't looked at it, but I think you might.
But see, there's another side of that too. The fact
that there are 50% women graduating out of the
class it doesn't overrun the profession quite as
strongly as if they were all men. That's right.
Okay, so you're getting a lot more bodies out
there, but really less product or competition or
whatever you want to call it. You're not near the
numbers of practitioners that it would be if they
were all male. Now, that's based on my experience.
It's based on a little bit of philosophy. Yeah,
well, I was curious about that because I've heard,
well, one side of it was that Women are coming out
and competing, and they're not setting up shop,
and they don't have all these expenses, and
they're, in effect, flooding the market or
something. You know, that was the implication.
But what you're saying is really totally
different, in a way. I think that's true. I'm sure
there's some of the other that goes on, too. Well,
let's face it, if we could get good women to come in
and practice long hours just like the men, I mean, I
have no problem with that philosophically or
anything else. But I think, as a practical matter,
it just doesn't work in the same proportion. The
women working in this particular gate, the men in
another one, have different motivations,
different
demands. Let's face it, my wife doesn't make as
much money as I do, but she has a job. It's very
important that you have one. And I think that's
going to be true, and the woman veterinarian, she
may not make, and I don't think there's much in the
plan to go in and be a preparer. So that would be the
key in the difference. I'm going to. I'm going to
follow up on all this with Grinchow and Al Price and
so forth. Because I think it's interesting. I
think this is kind of some of the key to
understanding what's going on in the world. And
hopefully the book will be of some value to people
because we can at least expose these questions. I
don't want to answer them. Well, I think, yeah,
right. Better economics is a very important side
of the whole thing. That's really what we're
talking about in a sense. But it's very
interesting
to be able to see what I've been able to see. Well,
the nice thing about you right now, and that's why I
was so anxious to get with you early on, is now you
can step back and look at it from a different
perspective. When you're in the middle of it, your
world view is not the same at all. Be more
objective. That's right. But it's a good
profession. It's one that I enjoyed being with
when I was there. Well, I would think so. And I would
think, again, that the public estimation of
veterinary medicine is probably going to
increase. I think under the influence of, call it
what you will, environmentalism, conservation,
all that kind of thing, really does have an
animal-human dimension to it. And that could be
worked to the advantage of the profession. Let me
tell you another consideration. You look at the
young married couples right now. that are coming
up, and they have a very, very, very much higher
regard for their pets and their animals than they
did a guy that's my age now that's middle-aged. Oh
yeah, when I came out, man, we wouldn't spend a
nickel on an animal because it's not worth it. You
can go get another one. Yeah, that's right. But I
tell you what, the daughters and sons that I
raised, don't you think that they're going to let
those animals suffer? There's two things for it,
that they were brought up, I think, in caring
families that stressed, you know, and the school
stressed the human treatment of animals and
things like that. And animal became sort of a, as
you say, a bond to the human side of things. You've
got an appreciation for that. And, of course,
people have dollars to spend that we didn't have,
you know, at that time. But you've got a different
public out there now. You've got a different
clientele. I think that's going to certainly work
in the favor of the practitioner. It doesn't
necessarily reflect itself in the general
practitioner, because it's a game of economics
with cattle and animals and even horses that are
traded in commerce and hogs. So you can't quite put
that same thing on it. But let me say this. The
people that are carrying those animals, horses,
cattle, hogs, a much more fluent society too. They
know that there are things in science that can be
done to animals that maybe my daddy didn't
appreciate. God bless him, he was struggling. He
ate kids. Perhaps even myself. Let me ask you some,
I'm going to close you out pretty soon, I know
you're getting tired, but several other
dimensions of that practice, I guess, is what
would you say were some of the major problems that
you sensed confronting the industry? The
profession you mean? Yeah, the profession. While
I was there, you mean? Yeah. Or even today, just
random ideas. Well, of course, I always think of
the things that we did and the things we reacted to.
Of course, you know, education was one of those
things we tried to help solve through the academy.
We also fought real hard to keep another
veterinary school from being put in the state of
Texas Tech. Okay, why did you fight it? We fought it
because of two things. One, we didn't think that
the state would be willing over the long haul to
support two quality institutions in Texas. And I
tell you what, if we had those two right now, we'd be
hurting, because I understand the Texas A&M is
serving for money right now. In fact, they might
even be on probation if they don't get some more
money for certain things that they need to do down
there. But that was, of course, and I guess we may
have had some selfish motives, too. Everybody
thought, well, you know, we don't need that many
more veterinarians. We've already... expanded
at A&M to a trimester system. We're already
doubling the enrollment. Of course, we did that in
the face of threat. I don't think we would have
doubled the enrollment if we'd been rocking long,
free, and easy on what was going on. That's a good
thing, and I know this is kind of a sensitive area, I
guess. Does the TVMA...
What kind of relationship do you have with the vet
school in terms, say, of... of influencing
decisions relating to admissions, etc. Well, you
know, I'd be quite right. The medical association
has always thought of as controlling admission to
medical schools as essentially a sort of a union
card. Do you sense that at all? Well, I think we
certainly have that impression that that
association had a lot of influence on the card. I
think they listened to us a lot. Well, I have to give
Al Price credit for the fact that he ran a pretty
tight ship. He set up standards that you couldn't
penetrate. You know, I mean, it wasn't this old,
good old boy, you know, I'm going to get your boy in
where he's qualified. Not that thing. I bet that
pressure would be big. We're going to quit
teaching this, and we're going to start teaching
that. He, you know, give him credit for that, and I
think that has carried on. I think they've built a
good, solid reason to say, you know, these are
things that are good for teaching. Professions
should support these things. Of course, Dave, I
think when the profession says, and the
association says, well, we need more emphasis on
equine medicine, more emphasis on felon
medicine, or more emphasis on specialization,
teaching small animal practitioners to do more of
this and less of that, we need more on veterinary
economics about how to run a practice. I think
they're sensitive to things like that. Boy, I
think they still need that, don't they? Aren't
they beginning to move in that direction a little
bit? Yeah, I don't think it'd be hard to overdo
that. Of course, the cricket is always full of
time. Yeah, I know, they don't have time. But, you
know, one limiting factor, and I think most
veterinarians will admit, that they're not
really natural-born business people. No,
they're not. Most doctors are not, period. They
don't have a good staff or a good wife or a good
somebody to come in there and tell them how much
you're spending and how much you're bringing in.
They're never so busy out here hitting the road or
doing surgery that they don't know what's going
on. I'm going to follow that up because that's a
good opportunity for both business and medical
and... That practice is to work out a program. We
don't have that program. I teach economic and
business history. That's why I'm kind of
interested in that. Oh, do you? You still teach
some? Yeah. So I'm kind of interested in that.
That's one thing I wanted to do that I got lost in the
business profession. I never get back to get a
master's degree to do some teaching. Never too
late. It's kind of hard, but it's never too late.
So... Would you comment just again in very broad
terms on your relations with the A&M School of
Veterinary Medicine? Well, you know, Henry, I
took on probably a little bit different image than
maybe the guy that succeeded me or maybe even the
guy that's there now. You know, A&M was my school.
Okay, yeah, sure. And I roomed with veterinarians
when I went to school. I had a national
appreciation for that in my agricultural
background. But, you know, I broke my back to do
everything I could. In fact, You know, I was there
when we created the Veterinary Medical
Diagnostic Laboratory. Okay. That's another one
of the legislative things that we did during my
tenure. Yeah, that's a good point. And I felt so
good about it because, first of all, my people
needed it, and I was doing something for my school.
Yeah. And I guess I'm a little sentimental about
that. But, you know, I would do anything for the
veterinary school and Texas A&M. It was natural.
Yeah, okay. But I'll tell you, there was a mutual
respect in those guys. They respected what I was
trying to do. I certainly respected them. I called
shots on them. And so consequently, it was kind of
romantic. Yeah. And would you say that still
holds, pretty much? Well, you know, I don't know.
Like I said, after I left, I think different people
have different feelings. I'm sort of a
sentimental person. But I still think, that they
know the importance of veterinary school.
They've got to go in and input as much as they can and
support the school through the association, with
the association, vice versa. And I don't know how
much of that continues, but I know it has to be. It
just has to be. But that's the way you get things
done. It's cooperation. I couldn't sense or see
any problems or think of anything, but I was just
wondering. I don't know either, and I certainly
wasn't that way when I was there. I'm hoping. I
don't think it would be a very, very serious
problem on any dean's part to completely ignore
the profession and association that represents
it. And it would certainly be stupid on the part of
the association not to understand the real need
and what the college is doing to support
everything that they possibly can. We're in this
thing together. Yeah, absolutely. I'll follow
that up with Price, too. I've always liked him.
He'll tell me the way it is. I have a feeling. I
guarantee.
Okay, so general problems I was concerned with and
your relationships with the veterinary medicine
schools, school of veterinary medicine. Okay,
what about relationships with other state
associations and organizations that are
somewhat in your ballpark? Right. Well, we always
were brought together in that area because the
American Veterinary Association always brought
the constituent associations in every so often to
talk about what the AVMA was doing. Of course, we
had separate memberships and the views were not,
it wasn't a federation type. Yeah. And at that
time, we also got our different state executives
together to kind of talk over our own little
problem. We had an aid for that where we sit down and
talk about running associations. Did you usually
go to the AVMA meetings? Always. Did a pretty good
delegation go with you usually, or from Texas?
Well, you know, we went to two different groups,
Henry. I would go to a constituent meeting where
they were strictly talking what AVMA was trying to
do in the past. And then we would go to the annual
convention where we were trying to get ABMA to do
what our particular state wanted them to do. We
took a delegation there. We'd always take two
voting delegates and the president. And I would go
along and kind of advise on the resolution that we
were trying to pass. We were always interested in
the way that the ABMA distributed its voting
weight of its vote. compared to numbers. We were
always on the short end of the stick. We had more
numbers and less weight. You voted two delegates,
although our region might have had three times the
numbers they had in New England. So we were always
fighting for things like that. And we were
fighting for things that the council, the various
councils were doing. They had counsel on
everything, from small animal medicine to
specialty practices. We were always trying to get
them into things that were You know, we were into
it. Did you have any formal or informal
affiliations with some of the breeder
associations in Texas, say, or just general
American breeder associations? Cattle or
whatever? Not really. You know, usually we were
invited to, but I was invited. That could be
burdensome, I guess, after all. Texas
Southwestern Cattle Records, for instance. They
always invited me and my friends to their annual
meeting. The Texas Farm Bureau, they would invite
me since I was a former employer, they used to
invite me. Did you go? Oh, yes. I go very
frequently. I always have one every time. Did you
tend to use the Farm Bureau, for example, as a forum
for promulgating what veterinary medicine
was... doing at all? Did you have that
opportunity? Well, not really, but I think we
always kept, it was an ear, you know. What we did
more than that, and I got into it long towards the
end of my career with the association, that we met
with what they call the Texas Agricultural
Council. Okay. Every commodity group that is in
the state, plus that's all your cattle raisers,
and they weren't breeding groups, they were
commodity groups. Yeah. Cattle people, grain
people, cotton people, milk people, you name it.
We still have that.
I was not as active in veterinary medicine, but I
began to get into it because I realized that we had
to have the agricultural community aware of what
we're doing. That was the thing that almost
wrecked the practice act last time. The
agricultural community became suspicious that
veterinary medicine was trying to encroach on
some areas that they'd always thought was their
territory. Embryo transfer. Pregnancy testing.
And actually and truly, when they rewrote the
Practice Act, we had people in the agriculture
community. By that time, I was over in the
agriculture community. I was out of the
veterinary community. You know, attacking their
Practice Act in areas that had always been covered
in the Practice Act. So I convinced the
agriculture community that, you know, why don't
you look at what they're trying to change that
encroaches but let's leave alone the things that
they've already got. I mean, that's not, to me,
that's being a little bit picky. You know, we can
kill them. Our community can kill them on anything
we want it to. You've got the clout. I said, let's
leave the practice act alone, except in those
areas that they're trying to go into that we feel
like we question, or that we have a right to input
on. And consequently, I think I was kind of the
peacemaker, even though There were a few that knew
this, and I wouldn't try to make it public. But I
didn't get paid for it. I didn't ask for it. But I had
enough respect for the people. Well, that makes
your world easier, too. I had enough respect for
the people that were trying to do this because they
were my former leaders. I had enough respect for
their customers to understand their side of the
problem. But I was sort of a mediator, a referee,
and I was glad I could play that role. What about
relations with other states? associations,
Oklahoma, Louisiana, et cetera. For example,
when I was raised in Louisiana, every vet came to
Texas A&M. Well, we had a lot closer relation with
Louisiana for that reason, because we had quite a
few graduates. So we had joint meetings with
Louisiana on a number of occasions. Oh, is that
right? We met in New Orleans one time. We met in
Houston a couple of times, I believe it was. But we
felt a lot closer to them, We had a lot of friends.
What was your attitude in opening the vet school in
Louisiana? Were you still involved? I was here
then. I don't think it was any sentiment. I think we
were kind of glad because at that time we had more
students over here than we could place. In those 8
or 10 or 12 spots that they had, we had an agreement
to come back. We had to give them. I think the
college felt relieved. We were along with
college. I don't think anybody thought that that
was a threat to numbers or anything. We were more
concerned with another college in the state. In
Oklahoma, we had very little association with. We
had a few graduates that went up there. We had a few
graduates from up there that came down here. We
went through a situation in the late and early 80s
where a lot of the people from the other states
became involved in leadership roles in the
association. It was an A&M bill. Yeah, right. And
we had various ones to be credited. I think when I
left there, we probably had over 50% non-A&M
graduates on the executive board. Oh, is that
right? That's interesting. I had no idea. I think
that's reason it fired me. Oh, is it? You're not
going to put that in the record? Could be, you know.
Could be. But, you know, we were trying. We were
trying to not be just an A&M deal. Yeah, yeah. I
think it was the right way to go to get to the other
states, but we were getting more and more. Yeah,
sure. And apparently we were from Oklahoma,
Missouri, Alabama, Auburn, and those states. We
had a few Kansas graduates. Well, they're not very
in California. Florida got a school after
Louisiana did, so it was really an influx of... So
it just reflects the growth of tax people coming
from all over the country about that time. And we
had a few Pennsylvania graduates, people like
that. It was... I don't know what it is now. I think
they're probably back to about two-thirds Texas
and one-third other now. What about, say,
problems with other state veterinary practice
acts? Was there any conflict, or did you run into
anything like that? Well, the thing I remember,
Henry, more than anything else is that the closer
bi-states seem to kind of guard guard their
territory like that. People in New Mexico wasn't
real crazy about the guy from Texas getting a
license in New Mexico because he was a potential
competitor. He'd come across the line. I read some
literature in the Correspond. I don't remember
the circumstances. Some people from Texas, they
were practicing in New Mexico without being
licensed in New Mexico. That kind of stuff. And
vice versa, probably. They made it pretty tough.
But what they finally did is kind of got together on
some terms and said, hey, you know, We won't shut
you out if you want to shut us out. We're not going to
take you just on a written test. We want you to come
over and take a practical test. So they set up a
standard, and I think what they were trying to do
was certainly try to keep outlaws out. If you've
got somebody that can't practice in your own
state, you have to worry about them a little bit.
Why do you want to come over here? I don't think that
was... I think it was certainly an issue that was
out there, But it wasn't the biggest thing that was
out
there. Well, I guess that's the main thread of
thought. We always supported the examining
board, too, the regulatory body. We tried to put
our people on there, and we did. In fact, that's
another whole area I want to follow up, not with you
right now, but is the public health dimension of
veterinary medicine. How about Mexico? Just any
brief comment on the... Mexico? Yeah, we were
talking about, you know, other states, but
there's another big problem, possibly. Yeah, we
used to... The Academy used to go to Mexico for
seminars and work with the Mexicans down there and
joint seminar work. And, you know, that's a whole
other world down there. At the time I was there, we
always sort of uh agreed that they were probably in
the 1940s down there yeah in the 1980s yeah early
80s and like in other words they were more like a
county agent ag teacher type situation down there
their sanitation was just something to be a guest
about the milk production and of course there's
only two things down there really that mattered a
great deal was was poultry and milk yeah you know
The beef, you know, they had a lot of beef cattle,
but people didn't eat beef. They ate chicken. And
so they could raise chickens a lot faster. So I
guess for seven, eight, ten years when I was there,
we always met jointly with the Guadalajara
Association. And we also went to Cancun, the
academy did this. in the interest of the Diggids.
And we were really trying to bring those people in
and learn more about them. And we had some people
that actually found work there. But it's awfully
hard. Their standards of pay and their standards
of paying are a little bit different. Yeah, well, I
know what you mean. I know how you mean that. We had
some people that got left high and dry. See, they
can't get the drugs down there that weekend. And
they won't let them come down there. If that's
changed in the last five, six years, that'd be
great. See, they liked it because they could come
up here get all the drugs that they wanted through
the veterinarian's sphere. And they couldn't get
any drugs then. And their teaching facilities,
they had a bunch of veterinary schools, but their
teaching facilities were more like animal
science, animal medicine. I was talking to Pinky
from El Paso. And he used to talk about some of the
rabies problems they have and the teaching
problems and so forth. We have an outbreak going
around Del Rio and down through there just about
every so often. Of course, he's right there in
Warriors, El Paso, and that's a problem. But they
got, tell you what, they depend on those next to
where we're in El Paso. I mean, they're really an
asset to veterinary practice because you've got
some fluent people that use the veterinarians on
this side. Yeah. So basically though you felt like
you had a good constructive career with TVMA.
Yeah, I would be awfully unfair. I have to admit I
wasn't really exactly ready to leave, but I had a
great career and I made a lot of friends and they
paid me well. It opened some doors. When I left it
did one thing I think I probably should have been
doing all the time and that's working for myself.
But I had a good job, a good paying job, a lot of
respect. And I think I probably burned out, truth
be told. Yeah, that happened in a period of time.
Was there any major issue or change in policy
involved when you left? I really don't know. Or
just kind of attrition or whatever? Well, you
know, there were some people in the office that
left. You know, there were a few unkind exchanges
over the thing. Not by me so much, but by my
supporters. Yeah. But you know. I know those
things. You don't ever go back. I'm convinced. I
don't care what it is. It's kind of like leaving
home. But there was no great redirection after you
left of the association. I think they were just
trying to keep it in the middle of the road. We had
grown into a pretty good little monster there. We
had some real grandiose plans for doing things
which later developed. Were you in the new
building? Never was. See, I was never for that type
of building. I wanted a big old downtown
historical place where we could put a museum, you
know, where we could be where the action is.
Nobody's going to go out there. And of course, my
idea was not to become a landlord. Yeah, that's a
problem. I sense that the day I walk in those
offices over there. I want, oh, maybe, maybe to the
extent of a couple of offices, you know, maybe a
kind of a compatible deal where we could have a
central reception place that would serve the
building. We'd have a central janitorial service
and a central type of conference room area and
place to coffee and all that kind of thing. But that
never did come to head when I was there because I
wouldn't push it. And I think that might be some
reason people didn't like it. I just felt like that
we needed, you know, they hadn't done anything big
enough. The manager, the director always has some
input. And I was holding out for something more
like I described. And of course, You know, one of
the things you do when you take over is you change
things. I'm sure the thing to do was the new manager
to come in, let's build that building. Sure, yeah.
Hell, that gets everybody's mind off of
everything else. Boy, it did, I think. It did. You
know, I probably would have done the same thing,
and maybe not the same idea, but I would have made
some changes because it's important to do that.
And you've got to do something that, that put the
leadership behind it. You can do anything the
first three years, you don't get fired. It's after
that when it gets tough. It's damn tough to be 18. It
is. That's a long career in anything. I was
department head for five, and they were glad to see
me go. You were probably glad to go. I was glad to go.
It's something I think you should shoot for. I
think you should compliment yourself a bit. Not
everybody gets there. Well, that's true, too. Not
everybody has a chance to do something like what
I've done. I've got an ego like everybody else. I
admire what you're doing already. I never run into
people quite like you, I don't think, so that's
interesting. I didn't know that world was there.
If I knew it was that tough, you know, the first two
years I got out, if I knew it was going to take me
twice as long to get where I wanted to be as it did, I
probably wanted to hunt me another good job. Good
job, yeah. Yeah, that security is pretty good when
you face that. I keep thinking, well, you know,
they're going to beat my door down. We're going to
get this thing going. You know, you've got to go
beat on some doors yourself. Okay, one final
question. I'll let you go. Is there anything you
think in a history of Texas veterinary medicine
that you really think ought to be there in terms of
philosophy, attitude, values, or whatever, or
information?
Well, you know, philosophically, I think that you
have to go back and give credit to the general
practitioner. That is the backbone that got the
organization going. It's the one that kept it
going. I think it's still the real, the real fiber
is still this old D&P. Maybe it's because of my
background. But even the small animal
practitioner that came from that background, you
know, that frame of mind is the thing that kept this
thing together. and taught it to progress. And of
course, you know, it's all going to change. We've
got a new breed cat out there, a new small animal
practitioner, a new large animal practitioner.
That's fine. But I think it would be a mistake to not
try to ground this thing on the philosophy that the
general practitioner is the one that spread the
bread on the water and kept the thing going. I don't
know... The other things, I have to say this, you
have to give credit to the professional person who
thought enough to come and entrust his money and
his membership to his professional association.
Without members, you can't do it. No, that's
right. But you have to do something right to do
that. Yeah, that's right. It's a mutual benefit
society. And it would sure be a shame for the
professional person to not look to the
association as a very vital thing to your support.
On that, we never did quite finish. Did that
insurance program continue? Well, what we did is
we phased it out. We just got to the point where We
could not get the quality of service. We got the
competitive. What we did, we blended into the
AVMA, thank God, that allowed us to do it. But we did
it because the time changed. If things were like
they were when we started, we'd still be there. But
you look at any association that's got an
insurance program, they just send somebody else
out. I mean, I'd say 90% of them. Especially the
state associations. I imagine AVMA's probably
doing well because they've got pretty much it. But
see, the insurance business is a burden to the
practitioner now. It used to be something that
didn't cost too much. Yeah. You know, liability
insurance. Nothing, yeah. And workers' comp
didn't cost much. Yeah. And able to serve and
everybody kind of took it on. Now, they look and
criticize every premium, every coverage, and
they should have. Yeah. And hospital costs have
gone out of sight, you know. They need to sell
policies. $75, $80 a month hospital, and that's
$300, you know.
So it's not a romance situation with that anymore.
Better leave it alone. Yeah, you sure would. If I
got into it with any other association, I would
strictly get into it on some of the fringe stuff,
you know, maybe term life, some of these required
coverages, you know, that you've got to have when
you want them or not. I stay out of the health field.
Well, uh, Tony, are you going to pretty well stay
with what you're doing now?